ELAVATOR PITCH 

So tell me about yourself? 

First off I’d like to say thank you for taking the time to set up this interview with me I’m excited to be here and show you what I can bring to your team. I’ve just graduated from Boise Codeworks with knowledge of Javascript, Vue, C#, SQL, and CSS. Previously I was the manager at “The Paint Store” where I’ve learned a lot about time management and client interaction especially when it comes to strict timelines and specific color matches. This translated well to software development because I’m able to manage my time well and focus on the nitty gritty. 

———————————————————————————————————————————
STAR RESPONSE 

1)

Describe a time when you saw some problem and took the initiative to correct it rather than waiting for someone else to do it?

Situation: So I had a lady come in and mentioned that she had a color match that we had done and at the store it looked great but when she got home the color was drastically different. Mentioning that the color was lighter. We had color matched her wall color straight from the can itself. She was upset because she didn’t understand why her color was so different at home than it is at the store. 

Task: Luckily she had taken a photo of how different it had looked on the wall. I had taken the extra time to ask her a variety of questions. Like does the color change through out the day? How long had the color on your wall been there? And where are you touching up? Turns out she was touching up multiple areas on the wall itself and mentioned that the color had been on the wall for around 10 years and that the color looked better during the evening. 

Action: At this point I knew exactly what was going on! What ended up happening was that the color on her wall had faded. What a lot of people don’t know about paint is that like everything else it does deteriorate. Paint looses color and sheen. So while you may put the exact same color and sheen back on the wall with the exact same can it won’t match. The color fading and the sheen going dull made the color on the wall look darker. 

Resolution: At this point I had encouraged the client to paint the whole wall because the amount of time it would’ve taken to go back and forth retinting the color and reapplying it she could’ve had the wall done. I encouraged her that she won’t see the different if she paints the wall from corner to corner. She took my advice and came back in a few months later saying that it came out beautifully and thanked me for encouraging her to paint the whole wall. 


2)

Tell me about your proudest professional accomplishment?


Situation: I had a really upset designer come in with a block of blue pine and she tried to stain this piece of wood with yellow wood stain. This made all that beautiful blue grain turn green. Luckily the only pieces of wood she’s stained were sample boards. 


Task: I was in charge of helping out with this situation due to my knowledge in wood stains. I knew immediately what I needed to do to help this situation. 

Action: I had her bring the block of blue pine to my station and explained to her that stain is like a highlighter. It highlights the grain and when you add a yellow stain to blue grain it turns green. So I turned her towards the a couple of the lightest brown color we had to offer and sampled them on the block. 

Resolution: After doing a few samples she managed to find the color she loved and thanked me for explaining how stains work and why it was turning her blue pine green.

3)

Tell me about the first job you’ve ever had. What did you do to learn the ropes?


Situation: My first job I’ve ever had was working at Wendy’s. I was super nervous and wanted to impress my boss from the start but I wasn’t quite sure how. 

Task: I took the time to really understand why my bosses wanted things a certain way. I’d ask “So I’ll definitely do this but I’m curious as to why we do it this way?” I found that my bosses were happy whenever I took interest in my work. 

Action: So after working there for quite some time I got used to all my normal everyday task and got really good at managing my time. Finding myself ahead of my other 
co-workers. So instead of standing around I’d lend a hand to help out my co-workers. 

Resolution: My managers saw this and started to implement an everybody helps everybody atmosphere instead of everyone just work on their stations.


4)

Give me an example of a time when you had to explain something fairly complex to a frustrated client. How did you handle this delicate situation?

Situation: I had a client come in and wanted a specific color that he wanted color matched. He handed me a color swatch and told him it would take about an hour to color match. During my time color matching I found that this color was extremely difficult to match. It was difficult because it changed in 4 various areas. 

Task: I took the whole hour to try and match the color perfectly but to no avail. What happens in this situation is that certain colors will change depending on the light and how it hit’s. 

Action: I explained to this client that it wasn’t possible to have it match perfectly. This client did not want to hear this and he started to get frustrated because he didn’t understand how a color could change colors like that. After explaining and show him examples of what I was talking about he started to calm down and I asked him about the room he was painting. If it had a lot of natural light, if they use led lights, soft bulbs, daylight bulbs, etc. 

Resolution: After the client and I discussed what type of lighting the room had and what we could expect I recommended that I tweek the color a little more to adhere to a manufactured lighting atmosphere rather than a natural one. The client was thrilled that I took the time to explain what was happening to his color and change his color to his room atmosphere rather than saying “Oh well!”

5)

Describe a time when it was especially important to make a good impression on a client. How did you go about doing so?

Situation: Boise Boys! My boss and I were trying to win over HGTV’s Boise Boys to buy from our store. 

Task: We got their assistant designer, and head marketer to come to our store to discuss products, paint line, service, color matches, and what we represent as a store. 

Action: We talked with them for about 2 hours or so. Talking about random things such as customer interactions, the weird request we’ve had from customers from both Boise Boys and ourselves. 

Resolution: What turned into a business meeting at the beginning ended up being an awesome conversation between the two of us. Talking about what we were most proud of, how the building/ remodeling industry had changed, and how you have to be really careful about what contractors and painters you recommend today. Because unfortunately there are a lot of painters and contractors that are looking to rip people off. So at the end of the meeting they wasted no time in saying that they wanted to partner with us and buy all their painting supplies from us. 

  


———————————————————————————————————————————
STANDING OUT 

I think some of the things I can do to prepare myself to stand out is to be personable, friendly and do my research about the company I’m interviewing with. I think making small talk and having conversations with my interviewer is a great way to stand out to an interviewer. I also believe that when a candidate shows interest in their company by asking questions and showing interest that can help you stand out. 

———————————————————————————————————————————


Whiteboard Challenge
I’ve been trying to work on whiteboard challenges at home and what I’ve found is that when I’m on the spot and someone is watching me my brain shuts down and I can’t get myself out of the spell. I think for me I need to develop a deeper understanding of Javascript to gain the confidence that I need for whiteboard challenges. 



5 Questions I Would Like To Ask My Interviewer
 
1. Can you describe an average day at the office?
2. What does the training process look like?
3. What is the office culture/ social side of the company like?
4. What type of employee tends to succeed here, and what qualities are the most important for succeeding here?
5. When your staff comes to you with conflicts, how do you respond?
